# CBDC_India
CBDC_India will explain the use and adoption of central bank digital currency (CBDC) using distributed ledger technology in context of India. 
## CBDC Overview
The popularity of cryptocurrencies such as *Bitcoin*, *Litecoin*, *Dogecoin*, *Ethereum*, *XRP*, etc., is gaining attention and speeding up their circulation worldwide. These cryptocurrencies are not regulated by any centralized authority (i.e., government) also not considered as legal tender, which could lead to the support for anti-money laundering (AML), financing of terrorism (CFT), and other criminal activities. In particular, several countries are afraid of these illegal cryptocurrency circulations and planning to implement their legal digital money called *central bank digital currency (CBDC)*. The CBDC uses digital tokens generated by converting any nation’s fiat/stable currency into digital tokens using *distributed ledger technology (DLT)*. Unlike other cryptocurrencies, these digital tokens are generated by the nation’s monetary authority and issued and regulated under the central bank’s governance. Therefore, these digital tokens are pegged by a suitable amount of monetary assets such as gold or foreign currency reserves. The adoption of DLT in CBDC improves the current financial infrastructure by building trust in the issuance and circulation of digital tokens. 
## Types of CBDC
### A.) Wholesale and Retail CBDC
**(i).** ***Wholesale CBDC :***
The wholesale CBDC is for the authorized financial institutions that carry reserve deposits with the central bank. A wholesale CBDC is issued, distributed, managed, and stored entirely by the central bank or by an authorized institution appointed by the central bank to perform such tasks. The entities involved in the wholesale CBDC are not *anonymous* because they pre-register themselves under the central bank to access and conduct *interbank payment settlement* transactions processed by the central bank or through the authorized institution. The benefit of bringing wholesale CBDC in place of the traditional wholesale market is enhancing *security* and *payment settlement efficiency*, *enabling real-time monitoring*, *minimizing counterparty credits* and *liquidity risk*.  
**(ii).** ***Retail CBDC :*** 
On the other side, the retail CBDC is issued for the general *public* to purchase goods and services and send/receive digital tokens for fulfilling their routine demands. The idea of retail CBDC is to promote a *cashless society* to reduce cash printing costs and make payments outside of the banking system, similar to cash payment.
### B.) Account-based and Token-based CBDC
In CBDC, the end-users can access the digital tokens using an account-based CBDC or token-based CBDC.     
**(i).** ***Account-based CBDC :*** 
In account-based CBDC, the end-user opens an account with the third-party provider authorized by the central bank. Hence, the third-party provider is responsible for end-user *identity verification*, *know-your-customer (KYC)* process, *digital tokens distribution* from one account to another, and transaction’s approval, e.g., *commercial bank accounts*.   
**(ii).** ***Token-based CBDC :*** 
In token-based CBDC, an end-user requires a *digital wallet* to hold digital tokens accessed by a public/private key pair or digital signature. Therefore, the third-party provider approved the transaction based on the public/private key of the end-user. Also, a token-based CBDC may incorporate end-users identity to remove anonymity from the CBDC network, e.g., *cash* and *crypto coins* (i.e., bitcoin, ether, etc.).
## CBDC Architecture
The CBDC architecture follows one of the available two implementation approaches: direct CBDC and indirect CBDC.  
**(i)** ***Direct CBDC :***
In direct CBDC design, the *central bank* operates the digital tokens payment system and offers retail services to the end-users. Therefore, it is also called *single-layered architecture*. Any end-user can open an account in the central bank to receive digital tokens, as illustrated in Fig. 1. The central bank itself maintains the ledger of all accounts and executes retail payments. Therefore, it has complete control over the issuance and circulation of digital tokens. On the other side, the **disadvantage** of having this model is the tremendous *workload*. The central bank needs to provide good services to individuals and implement government regulations to prevent AML and anti-fraud prevention on all accounts.
![pilot]
